Information Bulletin
Mathematics 30Ł1

Diploma Examinations Program 2025Ł2026
This document was primarily written for:

Students

Teachers            of Mathematics 30Ł1

Administrators

Parents

General Audiences

Others

2025Ł2026 Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin

Distribution: This document is posted on the Alberta Education and Childcare website.

Copyright ® 2025, the Crown in Right of Alberta, as represented by the Minister of Education and Childcare,
Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment, 6th floor, 44 Capital Boulevard, 10044 108 Street NW,
Edmonton, Alberta T5J 5E6, and its licensors. All rights reserved.

Special permission is granted to Alberta educators only to reproduce, for educational purposes and on a non-profit basis,
parts of this document that do not contain excerpted material.

Excerpted material in this document shall not be reproduced without the written permission of the original publisher
(see credits, where applicable).

                   Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Contents

Introduction............................................................................................................. 1

Examination Security.............................................................................................. 2

Time Limits on Diploma Examinations.................................................................. 2

Equating to Maintain Consistent Standards over Time
on Diploma Examinations...................................................................................... 3

Diploma Examinations: Multiple Forms................................................................ 4

How to Get Involved............................................................................................... 5

Field Testing............................................................................................................ 6

Ę How do field tests help teachers and students?  6

Ę How are field-test data used?                   6

Ę Mathematics field tests                         6

Ę How can teachers schedule field tests?          7

Mathematics 30Ł1 Field Testing............................................................................ 8

Practice Tests......................................................................................................... 9

Special-format Practice Tests............................................................................... 9

Audio Descriptions................................................................................................. 9

Course Objectives.................................................................................................10

Mathematical Processes.......................................................................................10

Performance Expectations...................................................................................11

Ę Curriculum standards                            11

Performance Standards........................................................................................11

Ę Acceptable standard                             11

Ę Standard of excellence                          11

Assessment Standards and Exemplars...............................................................12

Examples of Written-response Questions...........................................................12

Explanation of Cognitive Levels...........................................................................13

Ę Procedural                                      13

Ę Conceptual                                      13

Ę Problem solving                                 13

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Examination Specifications and Design..............................................................14

Ę Specifications                                    14

Ę Machine-scored questions                          15

Ę Written-response questions                        15

General Scoring Guides........................................................................................16

Using Calculators...................................................................................................17

Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examination Instructions Pages:
Paper Format.........................................................................................................18

Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examination Instructions Page:
Digital Format........................................................................................................ 21

Mathematics 30Ł1 Formula Sheet....................................................................... 22

Commentary on the Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examinations....................... 23

Ę Students' strengths and areas for improvement     23

Ę Relations and Functions                           23

Ę Trigonometry                                      23

Ę Permutations, Combinations, and Binomial Theorem  23

Ę Observations from the written-response component  24

Mathematics Directing Words............................................................................. 25

Website Links........................................................................................................ 26

Contacts 2025Ł2026............................................................................................. 27

Please note that if you cannot access one of the direct website links referred to in this document, you can find diploma
examination-related materials on the Alberta Education and Childcare website.

                                                                  Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Introduction

The purpose of this bulletin is to provide teachers of Mathematics 30Ł1 with information about the diploma examinations
scheduled for the 2025Ł2026 school year. This bulletin should be used in conjunction with the current Mathematics 30Ł1
Program of Studies, the Mathematics 30Ł1 Assessment Standards and Exemplars document, and the Mathematics 30Ł1
Written-Response Information document to ensure that the curriculum and standards are addressed.

This bulletin includes descriptions of the Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examinations that will be administered in November 2025
and in January, April, June, and August 2026; descriptions of the acceptable standard and the standard of excellence; and
subject-specific information.

Diploma exams will be weighted at 30%, and the school-awarded mark will constitute 70% of a student's final mark.

Teachers are encouraged to share the contents of this bulletin with students.

For further information about program implementation, refer to the Alberta Education and Childcare website.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment                     1
Examination Security

All diploma examinations will be held secure until they are released to the public by the Minister. No secure diploma examination
is to be viewed until it is released to the public by the Minister. No secure diploma examination is to be previewed, discussed,
copied, or removed from the room in which the examination is being written. However, for the January and June administrations
only, teachers will be allowed access to a teacher perusal copy for review purposes 1 hour after the examination has started.
For mathematics and science diploma examinations, all diploma examinations must be kept secure before, during, and after
administration, without exception.
For humanities diploma examinations, the humanities Part A: Written Response examinations in the January and June
administrations must be kept secure until after they are administered. All other humanities Part A: Written Response
examinations, and all humanities Part B examinations, must be kept secure before, during, and after administration, without
exception.
Unused copies of all secured diploma examinations must be returned to Alberta Education and Childcare as per the dates
indicated in the Significant Dates at-a-Glance resource.
For more information about teacher perusal copies and examination security, please refer to the Administering diploma exams
web page.

Time Limits on Diploma Examinations

All students may use extra time to write diploma examinations. This means that all students have up to 6 hours to complete
the Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examination, if they need it. The examination is nevertheless designed so that the majority of
students can complete it within 3 hours. The examination instructions state both the designed time and the total time allowed.
Although extra time is allowed for diploma examinations in all subjects, the total time allowed is not the same in all subjects.
For more information about accommodations and provisions for students, please refer to the Administering diploma exams
web page.

2  Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education, Provincial Assessment
Equating to Maintain Consistent Standards over Time on
Diploma Examinations

A goal of Alberta Education and Childcare is to make scores achieved on examinations within the same subject directly
comparable from session to session, to ensure fairness to students across administrations.

To achieve this goal, the examination has a number of questions in common with a previous examination. Common (anchor)
items are used to find out if the student population writing in one administration differs in achievement from the student
population writing in another administration. Common items are also used to find out if the unique items (questions that have
never appeared in a previous examination) differ in difficulty from the unique (nonanchor) items on the baseline examination that
sets the standard to which all students are held.

A statistical process called equating adjusts for differences in difficulty between examinations. Examination marks may be
adjusted depending upon the difficulty of the examination written relative to the baseline examination. Therefore, the resulting
equated examination scores have the same meaning regardless of when and to whom the examination was administered.
Equated diploma examination marks are reported to students. More information about equating is available on the
Administering diploma exams web page.

Because of the security required to ensure fair and appropriate assessment of student achievement over time,
Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examinations will be fully secured and will not be released at the time of writing.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  3
Diploma Examinations: Multiple Forms

Some subjects may have two distinct forms (versions) of diploma examinations during major administrations (January and June).
Like all other diploma examinations, the two forms are equated to the baseline examination to ensure that the same standard
applies to both forms. Both forms adhere to the established blueprint specifications and are reviewed by a technical review
committee.

To facilitate the analysis of school-level results, each school receives only one examination form per subject. In subjects offering
a translated French-language examination, both forms are administered in English and in French.

For more information, contact the following:

Diploma exam format, content, confirming standards,
marking, and results reporting
Diploma.Exams@gov.ab.ca

or

French Assessment
French.Assessment@gov.ab.ca

or

Diploma exam security, diploma exam rules,
scheduling, and policy issues
Exam.Admin@gov.ab.ca

4  Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
How to Get Involved

High-quality diploma examinations are the product of close collaboration between classroom teachers and Alberta Education
and Childcare. Classroom teachers from across Alberta are involved in many aspects of diploma examination development,
including the development of items; the building, reviewing, administering, and marking of field tests; the reviewing and validating
of diploma examinations; the reviewing of support documents; and the marking of diploma examinations.

The development of test items from when they are written until when they appear on an examination takes at least one year. All
items on the Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examinations are written and/or validated by Mathematics 30Ł1 teachers from across
Alberta. After provincial implementation of the program of studies, items are field tested to ensure their reliability and validity.
Diploma examinations are reviewed by editors; a technical advisory working group composed of mathematics experts from
post-secondary institutions, teachers, and curriculum staff; translators; and a French validation working group.

Alberta Education and Childcare values the involvement of teachers and annually asks school authorities for the names of
teachers who are interested in being involved in any of the development processes for diploma examinations. Teachers who
are interested in developing items, constructing field tests, or reviewing and validating examinations are encouraged to talk to
their principals about how they can submit their names for approval to be involved in these processes. Although the call for
submissions for working groups occurs each fall, teachers are welcome to have their names submitted at any time.

Teachers may also be nominated by their school authority to mark written-response assignments for humanities and
mathematics diploma examinations. The call for nominations of markers occurs in early September (for January and April
marking) and again in February (for June, August, and November marking). Teachers who would like to be nominated to mark
diploma exams are encouraged to talk to their principals.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  5
Field Testing

Field testing is an essential stage in the development of fair, valid, and reliable provincial examinations. Field testing is a process
of collecting data on questions before the questions become part of a diploma examination. Potential diploma examination
questions are administered to students in field tests for diploma courses throughout the province to determine the difficulty and
appropriateness of the questions. Each field test requires a large student sample to provide the examination developers with
reliable information (i.e., statistical data and written validation comments from teachers and students).

How do field tests help teachers and students?

Teachers receive each student's score promptly, gaining useful information about their students' performance. Students benefit
from writing a test that duplicates some of the experience of writing a diploma examination. Field tests provide students and
teachers with examples of the format and content of questions that may appear on diploma examinations. Finally, because of
field testing, students, teachers, and parents can be reassured that the questions on diploma examinations have undergone
a rigorous development, improvement, and validation process.

How are field-test data used?

The data received from field tests indicate the validity, reliability, and fairness of each question. Questions that meet specific
standards are selected for use on future diploma examinations.

Some questions or sets of questions may not initially perform as well as we require. These questions may be revised and tested
again in field tests. Revisions are influenced by the written comments of students and teachers, who provide valuable advice
about the appropriateness of the questions, the adequacy of writing-time limits, test length, text readability, artwork/graphics
clarity and suitability, and question difficulty.

Mathematics field tests

Mathematics field tests are offered exclusively through the digital assessment platform.

Students may use paper formula sheets for all mathematics field tests. These formula sheets also appear in the digital
assessment platform. Students should have scrap paper, which may be accessed in the "Forms" section on the Administering
diploma exams web page. All paper formula sheets and scrap paper with markings must be securely shredded at the end of the
field-test administration.

Teachers are provided with data on how their students performed. Test items address learning outcomes in the program of
studies, which allows teachers to use field-test results to learn more about their students' strengths and areas for improvement.

The security of field-test items remains vital to the administration of diploma examinations. Participating teachers must commit to
maintaining the security of field-test items.

More information about field-test registration deadlines, administration, and security is available in the Field Testing Guide
2025Ł2026 on the Teacher participation in provincial assessments web page.

6  Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
How can teachers schedule field tests?

Field tests are offered digitally on the digital assessment platform. To schedule a field test, teachers must have a digital
assessment platform teacher account.

For information about how to schedule and administer a field test, please refer to the Field Testing Guide 2025Ł2026 on the
Teacher participation in provincial assessments web page or contact Field.Test@gov.ab.ca.

Detailed instructions for how to schedule a field test can also be found on the digital assessment platform Help web page.

For more information, contact the following:

Diploma exam format, content, confirming standards,
marking, and results reporting
Diploma.Exams@gov.ab.ca

or

French Assessment
French.Assessment@gov.ab.ca

or

Diploma exam security, diploma exam rules,
scheduling, and policy issues
Exam.Admin@gov.ab.ca

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment                      7
*NEW Mathematics 30Ł1 Field Testing

Mathematics 30Ł1 offers topic and end-of-course field tests.

There are two different types of topic field tests. One topic field test is 50 minutes in length and contains machine-scored items
only. The other topic field test is 60 minutes in length and contains machine-scored items as well as one written-response item.

End-of-course field tests contain machine-scored items as well as one written-response item. Each semester, one end-of-course
field test will be translated into French.

The table below shows the content, test length, and number of questions for field tests available for the 2025Ł2026 school year.

Content                                                         Test Length (minutes)  Number of Questions
Topic: Exponential and Logarithmic Functions; Transformations;                 50      10 machine-scored items
Function Operations                                                            60
Topic: Exponential and Logarithmic Functions; Transformations;                 50      10 machine-scored and
Function Operations                                                            60      1 written-response item
Topic: Polynomial, Radical, and Rational Functions;                            50      10 machine-scored items
Transformations; Function Operations
Topic: Polynomial, Radical, and Rational Functions;                                    10 machine-scored and
Transformations; Function Operations                                                   1 written-response item
Topic: Trigonometry                                                                    10 machine-scored items

Topic: Trigonometry                                             60                     10 machine-scored and
End-of-Course
                                                                                       1 written-response item

                                                                60                     10 machine-scored and

                                                                                       1 written-response item

The field tests are designed to be completed in the times listed in the table; however, an additional 15 minutes may be used,
if available.

An additional 10 minutes of time is required for each field test administration to complete the set-up procedures and
go through the instructions with students.

All field tests with a written-response component will require teachers to download and print written-response answer sheets.

After administration, all students' written-response answer sheets must be scanned and uploaded to the platform by
an administrator within 48 hours. After the upload has been successfully completed, all student written-response answer sheets,
scrap paper and formula sheets must be securely shredded.

For information about how to schedule and administer a field test, please refer to the Field Testing Guide 2025Ł2026 on the
Teacher participation in provincial assessments web page or contact Field.Test@gov.ab.ca.

8                    Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Practice Tests

To give students an opportunity to practise answering questions similar to those used on diploma examinations that address
learning outcomes in the program of studies, Alberta Education and Childcare produces practice tests for subjects that have
a diploma examination. Students can access these practice tests using Alberta Education and Childcare's digital assessment
platform.

Special-format Practice Tests

To give students an opportunity to practise answering questions similar to those used on diploma examinations that address
learning outcomes in the program of studies in Braille, large print, or coloured print versions, Alberta Education and Childcare
produces special-format practice tests for all subjects that have a diploma examination. Alberta schools with registered Alberta
KŁ12 students may place orders for these tests. Braille versions are available in English and, by request, in French. All tests are
provided free of charge, but limits may be placed on order volumes to ensure access for all students.
For the greatest benefit, special-format practice tests should be written under conditions similar to those of the corresponding
diploma examination. The same rules regarding the use of resources and devices should be followed.
Braille versions must be returned to Alberta Education and Childcare after use.
For more information or to place an order, contact Field.Test@gov.ab.ca.

Audio Descriptions

A support document, Examples of Descriptions Used in Audio Versions of Mathematics Diploma Exams, has been developed to
assist teachers and students planning to use an audio version during the administration of a mathematics diploma examination.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  9
Course Objectives

The Mathematics 30Ł1 course contains topics and outcomes, as specified in the program of studies, that will provide students
with the knowledge base, mathematical understandings, and critical-thinking skills identified for entry into post-secondary
programs that require the study of calculus. In Mathematics 30Ł1, algebraic, numerical, and graphical approaches are used to
solve problems. Technology is used to enable students to explore and create patterns, examine relationships, test conjectures,
and solve problems.

Students are expected to communicate solutions clearly and effectively when solving both routine and non-routine problems.
Students are also expected to develop both conceptual and procedural understandings of mathematics and apply them to
real-life problems. It is important for students to realize that it is acceptable to solve problems in different ways, using a variety
of strategies.

The program of studies is available online.

Mathematical Processes

The seven mathematical processes are critical aspects of learning, doing, and understanding mathematics. Students must
encounter these processes regularly in a mathematics program in order to achieve the goals of mathematics education.

The Mathematics 30Ł1 Program of Studies incorporates the following interrelated mathematical processes. They are to
permeate the teaching and learning of mathematics.

Communication [C]     Students are expected to:
Connections [CN]      use communication in order to learn and express their understanding
                      make connections among mathematical ideas, other concepts in mathematics, everyday
Mental Mathematics    experiences, and other disciplines
and Estimation [ME]   demonstrate fluency with mental mathematics and estimation
Problem Solving [PS]
Reasoning [R]         develop and apply new mathematical knowledge through problem solving
Technology [T]        develop mathematical reasoning
Visualization [V]     select and use technology as a tool for learning and solving problems
                      develop visualization skills to assist in processing information, making connections, and
                      solving problems

For further details about each of these processes, refer to the Mathematics Grades 10Ł12 Program of Studies.

10                    Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Performance Expectations

Curriculum standards

Provincial curriculum standards help to communicate how well students need to perform in order to be judged as having
achieved the learning outcomes specified in the Mathematics 30Ł1 Program of Studies. The specific statements of standards
are written primarily to inform Mathematics 30Ł1 teachers of the extent to which students must know the Mathematics 30Ł1
curriculum and demonstrate the required skills in order to pass the examination.
Diploma exams are designed to match the program of studies of each subject, but what the diploma exams measure may not
be the same in scope as what teachers measure. Diploma exam marks and teacher-awarded marks should reflect the same
standard, however, because both assess students based on the same program of studies (curriculum). Alberta Education and
Childcare works with teachers to set and maintain the standards of achievement for diploma exams. This information bulletin is
intended to assist teachers in understanding the provincial standards for Mathematics 30Ł1.

Performance Standards

Acceptable standard

Students who attain the acceptable standard, but not the standard of excellence, will receive a final course mark between 50%
and 79%, inclusive. Typically, these students have gained new skills and a basic knowledge of the concepts and procedures
relative to the general and specific outcomes defined for Mathematics 30Ł1 in the program of studies. They demonstrate
mathematical skills, as well as conceptual understanding, and they can apply their knowledge to familiar
problem contexts.

Standard of excellence

Students who attain the standard of excellence will receive a final course mark of 80% or higher. Typically, these students
have gained a breadth and depth of understanding regarding the concepts and procedures, as well as the ability to apply this
knowledge and conceptual understanding to a broad range of familiar and unfamiliar problem contexts.

When analyzing the data in Table 1 of the detailed reports, note that the percentage of students who achieved the acceptable
standard includes students who achieved the standard of excellence.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment                        11
Assessment Standards and Exemplars

The Mathematics 30Ł1 Assessment Standards and Exemplars document that describes acceptable standard and standard of
excellence performance levels appropriate to the Mathematics 30Ł1 Program of Studies can be found on the Alberta Education
and Childcare website. This document also contains notes and exemplars to assist teachers and students with the interpretation
of curricular outcomes in the program of studies.

Examples of Written-response Questions

The Math 30Ł1 Written-Response Information document, the Mathematics 30-1 Released Materials 2019 document, and the
Mathematics 30-1 Practice Test 2022 document contain examples of written-response questions, sample responses, and
scoring rationales as they relate to the general scoring guides and can be found on the Writing diploma exams web page.
These documents can help teachers and students understand the intent of the written-response component of the diploma
examination, provide information about how the scoring guide is applied to specific questions, and encourage the use of the
General Scoring Guide in class assignments. Teachers and students should note that certain directing words are bolded in
written-response questions. A list of these directing words and their definitions can be found on page 25 of this bulletin.

12  Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Explanation of Cognitive Levels

Procedural

The assessment of students' knowledge of mathematical procedures should involve recognition, execution, and verification of
appropriate procedures and the steps contained within them. The use of technology can allow for conceptual understanding
prior to specific skill development or vice versa. Students must appreciate that procedures are created or generated to meet
specific needs in an efficient manner and thus can be modified or extended to fit new situations. Assessment of students'
procedural knowledge will not be limited to an evaluation of their proficiency in performing procedures but will be extended to
reflect the skills presented above.

Conceptual

An understanding of mathematical concepts goes beyond a mere recall of definitions and recognition of common examples.
Assessment of students' knowledge and understanding of mathematical concepts should provide evidence that they can
compare, contrast, label, verbalize, and define concepts; identify and generate examples and counter-examples as well as
properties of a given concept; recognize the various meanings and interpretations of concepts; and defend procedures and
personal strategies. Students who have developed a conceptual understanding of mathematics can also use models, symbols,
and diagrams to represent concepts. Appropriate assessment provides evidence of the extent to which students have integrated
their knowledge of various concepts.

Problem solving

Appropriate assessment of problem-solving skills is achieved by allowing students to adapt and extend the mathematics they
know and by encouraging the use of strategies to solve unique and unfamiliar problems. Assessment of problem solving involves
measuring the extent to which students use these strategies and knowledge, and their ability to verify and interpret results.
Students' ability to solve problems develops over time as a result of their experiences with relevant situations that present
opportunities to solve various types of problems. Evidence of problem-solving skills is often linked to clarity of communication.
Students demonstrating strong problem-solving skills should be able to clearly explain the processes they have chosen, using
appropriate language and correct mathematical notation and conventions.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  13
Examination Specifications and Design

Each Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examination is designed to reflect the content outlined in the Mathematics 30Ł1 Program of
Studies. The percentage weightings shown below will not necessarily match the percentage of class time devoted to each topic.

Specifications

The format and content of the Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examinations in the 2025Ł2026 school year are as follows:

Question Format   Number of Questions             Emphasis
Machine Scored    32                              75%
Written Response  3                               25%

Notes: The three written-response questions are equally weighted.
          The machine-scored component in the paper format of the
          Mathematics 30-1 Diploma Examination will consist of 24 multiple-choice and
          8 numerical-response questions.

Topic                                             Emphasis
Relations and Functions                           53%Ł58%
Trigonometry                                      27%Ł33%
Permutations, Combinations, and Binomial Theorem  14%Ł18%

Procedural, conceptual, and problem-solving cognitive levels are addressed throughout the examination. The approximate
emphasis of each cognitive level is given below.

Cognitive Level   Emphasis
Conceptual        34%
Problem Solving   36%
Procedural        30%

14                Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Machine-scored questions

The machine-scored questions on the diploma exam can be written using a variety of question types. Information required to
answer these questions is often located in a box preceding the question.

For multiple-choice questions, students are to choose the correct or best possible answer from four alternatives.

For other types of machine-scored questions, students may be required to calculate a numerical answer and then record their
answer in a separate area on the answer sheet or in the response box on their screen. If the answer can be a decimal value, then
students are asked to record their answer to the nearest tenth or nearest hundredth, as specified in the question. If an answer
is a value between 0 and 1 (e.g., 0.25), then students should ensure that they record the 0 before the decimal place. Students
should retain all decimals throughout the question, and rounding should occur only in the final answer.

When the answer to be recorded cannot be a decimal value, students are asked to determine a whole number value;
e.g., "the number of people is ______" or "the number of different routes is ______".

Some machine-scored questions require students to record their understanding of a concept. These questions may require
students to select or match appropriate responses from a list or a table, to arrange items in a specific order, or to identify
an error in the steps of a solution or proof.

Instructions on how to record responses to numerical-response questions on the paper format of the diploma exam, with
specific examples, are shown on pages 19 and 20 of this bulletin. For examples of different machine-scored questions on the
digital format of the diploma exam, please refer to the Mathematics 30Ł1 Practice Test on the new digital assessment platform.

Written-response questions

The written-response component is designed to assess the degree to which students can draw on their mathematical
experiences to solve problems, explain mathematical concepts, and demonstrate their algebraic skills. A written-response
question may cover more than one specific outcome and will require students to make connections between concepts. Each
written-response question will consist of two parts and will address multiple cognitive levels. Students should be encouraged to
try to solve the problems in both parts because an attempt at a solution may be worth partial marks.

Students may be asked to solve, explain, or prove in a written-response question. Students are required to know the definitions
and expectations of directing words such as algebraically, compare, determine, evaluate, justify, and sketch. A list of
these directing words and their definitions can be found on page 25 of this bulletin.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  15
General Scoring Guides

The General Scoring Guide, developed in consultation with teachers and Alberta Education and Childcare staff, describes the
criteria and performance level at each score-point value. The General Scoring Guide will be used to develop specific scoring
descriptions for each written-response question.

In scoring the written-response questions, markers will evaluate how well students

Ę demonstrate their understanding of the problem or the mathematical concept
Ę correctly apply mathematical knowledge and skills
Ę use problem-solving strategies and explain their solutions and procedures
Ę communicate their solutions and mathematical ideas

2-MARK PART                                             3-MARK PART

Score        General Scoring Guide                      Score        General Scoring Guide
NR           No response is provided.                   NR           No response is provided.
0            In the response, the student does not      0            In the response, the student does not
             address the question or provides a                      address the question or provides a
0.5          solution that is invalid.                  0.5          solution that is invalid.
1                                                       1
             In the response, the student demonstrates               In the response, the student demonstrates
             basic mathematical understanding of        1.5          minimal mathematical understanding of
             the problem by applying an appropriate     2            the problem by applying an appropriate
             strategy or relevant mathematical                       strategy or some relevant mathematical
             knowledge to find a partial solution.                   knowledge to complete initial stages of a
                                                                     solution.
1.5
                                                                     In the response, the student demonstrates
2            In the response, the student demonstrates               good mathematical understanding of
                                                                     the problem by applying an appropriate
             complete mathematical understanding of                  strategy or relevant mathematical
                                                                     knowledge to find a partial solution.
             the problem by applying an appropriate

             strategy or relevant mathematical

             knowledge to find a complete and correct

             solution.

                                                        2.5

                                                        3            In the response, the student demonstrates

                                                                     complete mathematical understanding of

                                                                     the problem by applying an appropriate

                                                                     strategy or relevant mathematical

                                                                     knowledge to find a complete and correct

                                                                     solution.

Specific scoring guides for each written-response question will provide detailed descriptions to clarify expectations of student
performance at each benchmark score of 0, 1, 2, and 3. A student response that does not meet the performance level of
a benchmark score may receive an augmented score of 0.5, 1.5, or 2.5. Descriptions of these augmented scores will be
determined with teachers at each marking session and are not an exhaustive list. Each part will be scored separately, and the
scores will be combined for a total of 5 marks.

16                      Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Using Calculators

The Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examination requires the use of an approved graphing calculator. The list of approved graphing
calculators, along with the rules, list of prohibited properties, criteria, and keystrokes required to properly clear and configure
each approved graphing calculator, is in the 2025Ł2026 Calculator Information and Rules for Mathematics and Science Diploma
Exams document, which can be found on the Writing diploma exams web page.

Students may bring one approved calculator that must be properly cleared and configured before AND after each diploma exam
administration by the exam supervisor or teacher. If an approved graphing calculator is not cleared and configured properly, it
may have prohibited properties such as symbolic manipulation capabilities, downloaded programs, the ability to provide exact
trigonometric values, or the ability to simplify radicals and rationalize denominators. Teachers and students should recognize that
the different models of approved graphing calculators have a range of capabilities, and the choice of model to use or purchase
will require personal or teacher analysis of the calculator's capabilities and one's individual or school circumstances. Teachers
should also be aware of the capabilities that are available when the calculator is not configured for exam purposes as these
capabilities may impact classroom instruction and assessment. These capabilities may also be applicable to other high school
math and science courses.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  17
Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examination Instructions Pages:
Paper Format

Copyright ® 2026, the Crown in Right of Alberta, as represented by the Minister of Education and Childcare,
Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment Sector, 6th floor, 44 Capital Boulevard,
10044 108 Street NW, Edmonton, Alberta T5J 5E6, and its licensors. All rights reserved.

Duplication of this examination in any manner or its use for purposes other than those authorized and scheduled
by Alberta Education and Childcare is strictly prohibited.

The personal information collected through the Diploma Examinations Program is for the purpose of administering
the program as well as support programs, policy evaluation, and measurement. This collection is authorized by
section 4(c) of the Protection of Privacy Act. For questions about the collection of personal information,
contact the Director, Diploma Programs, Provincial Assessment Sector, System Excellence, by email at
Diploma.Exams@gov.ab.ca or by mail to 6th floor, 44 Capital Boulevard, 10044 108 Street NW, Edmonton,
Alberta T5J 5E6.

Mathematics 30Ł1

Grade 12 Diploma Examination

Description                                    Instructions

Time: 3 hours. This closed-book examination    Ę Turn to the last page of the examination
was developed to be completed in 3 hours;        booklet. Carefully fold and tear out the
however, you may take up to 6 hours to           machine-scored answer sheet along
complete the examination, should you need it.    the perforation.

This examination consists of:                  Ę Use only an HB pencil for the answer sheet.
Ę 24 multiple-choice and 8 numerical-
                                               Ę Fill in the information on the back cover
  response questions worth 75% of the total      of the examination booklet and the answer
  examination mark                               sheet as directed by the presiding examiner.
Ę 3 written-response questions worth 25% of
  the total examination mark                   Ę You must use a graphing calculator
                                                 approved by Alberta Education and
A tear-out formula sheet is included in this     Childcare.
booklet.
All graphs on this examination are computer-   Ę You must have cleared your calculator
generated.                                       of all information that is stored in the
                                                 programmable or parametric memory.
Do not write your name anywhere
in this booklet.                               Ę You may use a ruler and a protractor.

Note: The perforated pages at the back of      Ę Read each question carefully.
this booklet may be torn out and used for
your rough work. No marks will be given for    Ę Consider all numbers to be exact numbers
work done on the tear-out pages.                 and not the result of a measurement.

                                               Ę If you wish to change an answer, erase
                                                 all traces of your first answer.

                                               Ę Do not fold the answer sheet.

                                               Ę The presiding examiner will collect your
                                                 answer sheet and examination booklet
                                                 and send them to Alberta Education and
                                                 Childcare.

                                               Ę Now read the detailed instructions
                                                 for answering machine-scored and
                                                 written-response questions.

18  Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Multiple Choice                                 Examples

Ę Decide which of the choices best completes    Calculation Question and Solution
  the statement or answers the question.
                                                The average of the values 2.7, 8.1, and 5.2,
Ę Locate that question number on the separate   to the nearest tenth, is _________.
  answer sheet provided and fill in the circle
  that corresponds to your choice.              (Record your answer in the numerical-response
                                                section on the answer sheet.)
  Example
  This examination is for the subject of        Calculator value: 5.333333...
                                                Answer: 5.3
  A. biology
  B. physics
  C. chemistry
  D. mathematics

  Answer: D

  Record D on the answer sheet:

Numerical Response                              Any-order Question and Solution

Ę Record your answer on the answer sheet                                Four Words
  provided by writing it in the boxes and then
  filling in the corresponding circles.         1 Circle    3 Triangle
                                                2 Multiply  4 Rectangle
Ę If an answer is a value between 0 and 1
  (e.g., 0.25), then be sure to record the      The three shapes in the list above are numbered
  0 before the decimal place.                   ____, ____, and ____.

Ę Enter the first digit of your answer in       (Record all three digits of your answer in any order
  the left-hand box. Any boxes on the right     in the numerical-response section on the answer
  that are not needed are to remain blank.      sheet.)

                                                Answer: 134 (in any order)

                                                Note: All answers containing only the three digits
                                                       1, 3, and 4, in any order, will be scored as
                                                       correct.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  19
Correct-order Question and Solution                      Correct-order Question and Solution

Four exponential functions of the form y = bx             In the table below, the two numbers in each
are listed below.                                         horizontal row add to 7.

    Function 1  y = 1.2x                                 1  a
    Function 2  y = 1.4x
    Function 3  y = 1.5x                                 b  2
    Function 4  y = 1.1x
                                                         c  4

When these four functions are arranged in order from     In the table above, the value of
the lowest b value to the highest b value, the order is
___, ___, ___, and ___.                                  a is ________ (Record in the first column)
                                                         b is ________ (Record in the second column)
(Record all four digits of your answer in the            c is ________ (Record in the third column)
numerical-response section on the answer sheet.)
                                                         (Record your answer in the numerical-response
Answer: 4123                                             section on the answer sheet.)

                                                         Answer: 653

                                                         Written Response

                                                         Ę Write your responses in the examination
                                                           booklet as neatly as possible.

                                                         Ę For full marks, your responses must address
                                                           all aspects of the question.

                                                         Ę All responses, including descriptions
                                                           and/or explanations of concepts, must
                                                           include pertinent ideas, calculations,
                                                           formulas, and correct units.

                                                         Ę Your responses must be presented in
                                                           a well-organized manner. For example,
                                                           you may organize your responses in
                                                           paragraphs or point form.

20                        Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examination Instructions Page:
Digital Format

Mathematics 30Ł1

Grade 12 Diploma Examination

Description                                    Instructions

Time: 3 hours. This closed-book examination    Ę You may use a graphing calculator
was developed to be completed in 3 hours;        approved by Alberta Education and
however, you may take an additional 3 hours,     Childcare.
should you need it.
                                               Ę You must clear your calculator of all
This examination consists of                     information that is stored in the
Ę 32 machine-scored questions, worth 75%         programmable or parametric memory
                                                 both before and after the examination.
  of the total examination mark
Ę 3 written-response questions, worth 25%      Ę You are permitted to use scrap paper
                                                 for your rough work. No marks will be
  of the total examination mark                  given for work done on scrap paper.

A formula sheet can be viewed by clicking the  Ę Consider all numbers used in the
Resources icon at the right side of the          examination to be exact numbers and
screen.                                          not the result of a measurement.

A paper version of the formula sheet is also   Ę If you change an answer, your
permitted.                                       examination will be automatically
                                                 updated.
All graphs on this examination are
computer-generated.                            Ę To submit your final answers, click
                                                 "Submit" on the left side of the screen.

                                               Written-response Instructions

                                               Ę Write your responses as neatly and
                                                 as clearly as possible in the designated
                                                 space provided on the written-response
                                                 answer sheets.

                                               Ę For full marks, your responses must
                                                 address all aspects of the question.

                                               Ę All responses, including descriptions
                                                 and/or explanations of concepts, must
                                                 include pertinent ideas, calculations,
                                                 formulas, and correct units.

                                               Ę Your responses must be presented in
                                                 a well-organized manner. For example,
                                                 you may organize your responses in
                                                 paragraphs or point form.

                                               Ę The presiding examiner will collect
                                                 your written-response answer sheets
                                                 and send them to Alberta Education
                                                 and Childcare.

                                               Ę Do not include your name anywhere
                                                 in the written-response answer
                                                 sheets.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  21
Mathematics 30Ł1 Formula Sheet

       Mathematics 30Ł1 Formula Sheet

    For ax2 + bx + c = 0,                         Trigonometry

         x = -b !        b2 - 4ac                 i  =  a
                         2a                             r

    Relations and Functions                       tan  i  =   sin i           cot  i  =  cos i
                                                              cos i                      sin i

    Graphing Calculator Window Format             csc  i  =    1   i          sec  i  =    1  i
         x: [xmin, xmax, xscl]                                sin                        cos
         y: [ymin, ymax, yscl]
                                                  cot  i  =     1  i
                                                              tan

    Laws of Logarithms                            sin2 i + cos2 i = 1

         logb`M # Nj = logb M + logb N            1 + tan2 i = sec2 i

         logbb  M  l   =  logb  M  -  logb   N    1 + cot2 i = csc2 i
                N

         logb`Mnj = n logb M                      sin(a + b) = sin a cos b + cos a sin b

         logbc  =  loga c                         sin(a - b) = sin a cos b - cos a sin b
                   loga b

                                                  cos(a + b) = cos a cos b Ł sin a sin b

    Growth/Decay Formula                          cos(a - b) = cos a cos b + sin a sin b

                        t

         y = ab p

                                                  tan(a    +  b)   =   tan a + tan b
                                                                      1 - tan a tan b
    General Form of a Transformed Function
         y = af 8b(x - h)B + k                    tan(a    -  b)   =   tan a - tan b
                                                                      1 + tan a tan b

    Permutations, Combinations, and               sin(2a) = 2 sin a cos a
    the Binomial Theorem
                                                  cos(2a) = cos2 a Ł sin2 a
        n! = n(n Ł 1)(n Ł 2)...3 # 2 # 1,
        where n d N and 0! = 1                    cos(2a) = 2 cos2 a Ł 1

    nPr  =  (n  n!                                cos(2a) = 1 Ł 2 sin2 a
                - r)!

    nCr  =       n!                   Cr  =  fnp  tan(2a)     =  1  2 tan a
                - r)!r!                       r                     - tan2 a
            (n                     n

    In the expansion of (x + y)n, written in      y = a sin8b(x - c)B + d

    descending powers of x, the general term      y = a cos8b(x - c)B + d
    is tk + 1 = nCk xn - kyk.

22                              Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Commentary on the Mathematics 30Ł1 Diploma Examinations

Students' strengths and areas for improvement

Relations and Functions

Ę Students continue to perform well on questions regarding the interpretation of transformation equations involving stretches,
   reflections, and translations to determine the coordinates of a transformed point.

Ę Students are able to represent translations and reflections using mapping notation, but weaker students still have difficulties
   using this notation to represent stretches.

Ę Students are able to determine the number of invariant points associated with reflections, but many continue to have difficulty
   determining the number of invariant points associated with other transformations.

Ę Students are able to use product or power laws to simplify a logarithmic expression, but many continue to have difficulty
   combining multiple logarithm laws to simplify an expression into a single logarithm or to solve a logarithmic equation.

Ę Students are able to solve exponential equations that can be simplified to a common base.
Ę Students perform well on questions that require them to solve for a base in an exponential equation.
Ę Students are able to determine the factors of a polynomial expression and are able to relate the factored form of a polynomial

   function to the characteristics of the graph.
Ę Students continue to have difficulty determining the domain and range of a rational function that contains a point of

   discontinuity.
Ę Students are able to complete operations on functions for specific values of the variable.

Trigonometry

Ę Students continue to perform well on problems involving coterminal angles, angles drawn in standard position, and arc length.
Ę Students are able to determine the measure of an angle drawn in standard position given one coordinate of a point on the unit

   circle.
Ę Students continue to perform well on questions that require them to relate the parameters in the equation of a sinusoidal

   function to the characteristics of the corresponding graph of the function.
Ę Students are able to solve first-degree and second-degree trigonometric equations in a variety of domains, but many students

   have difficulty solving equations when an identity substitution is required.
Ę Students are able to determine the exact value of a trigonometric expression when verifying a trigonometric identity, but

   weaker students have difficulties verifying identities that involve conjugates, double angle identities, and the use of rational
   operations.

Permutations, Combinations, and Binomial Theorem

Ę Students are able to solve permutation problems that involve one or two constraints, but many students have difficulty solving
   problems with three or more constraints or multiple cases.

Ę Students are able to solve problems involving repeated elements.
Ę Stronger students are able to identify the correct statements about the expansion of a binomial with linear terms; however,

   many students have difficulty determining specific terms in the expansion of a binomial with non-linear terms.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  23
Observations from the written-response component

Ę Markers noted that many students need to read each written-response question more carefully to ensure that they are
   addressing all components of the question.

Ę Students should be reminded that they must be familiar with the specific meaning of the directing words. For example,
   markers noted that many students did not demonstrate that they know that the directing word algebraically requires
   students to demonstrate a complete algebraic process or procedure when solving the problem and that the directing word
   compare requires an explicit statement of how two concepts or objects are similar and different, along with the appropriate
   supporting evidence. Students are expected to include all steps in their work when the directing word determine is used.

Ę Markers noted that many students do not appear to understand the differences between some key algebraic processes.
   For example, many students did not demonstrate that they understand the difference between simplifying or factoring an
   expression and solving an equation or the difference between verifying and proving a trigonometric identity.

Ę Markers noted that some students are able to clearly illustrate the steps of their work, but many need to focus on organizing
   their work in a logical way.

Ę Many students need to focus on the details within their written work. Markers noted that students often omit the correct units
   in their final answer, forget to include the angle argument when writing trigonometric expressions, do not include all of the
   necessary brackets, and write expressions in place of equations. Additionally, students should be reminded to set factors
   equal to zero when solving equations, and relate their solution to the context of the problem.

Ę Students are expected to use appropriate math terminology and notation when communicating their understanding of
   math concepts. Markers noted that many students did not demonstrate that they know the correct vocabulary to use when
   describing transformations applied to the graph of a function. Using abbreviations in written explanations is inappropriate and
   not acceptable. Additionally, students are expected to use proper notation when writing domain, range and mapping notation.

Ę Students should be reminded that an acceptable sketch of the graph of a function must have clearly drawn and appropriately
   scaled axes and must include all key characteristics. Key characteristics may include vertices, endpoints, maximum and
   minimum points, intercepts, and asymptote lines. It is also important to ensure that students provide sketches that illustrate the
   correct graph shape and correct end behaviour.

24  Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Mathematics Directing Words

In Provincial Assessment use, mathematics directing words have the following definitions, which students are required to know.
These words will be bolded in the written-response questions.

Algebraically  Using mathematical procedures that involve variables or symbols to represent values
Analyze        Make a mathematical examination of parts to determine the nature, proportion, function,
               interrelationships, and characteristics of the whole
Classify       Arrange items or concepts in categories according to shared qualities or characteristics
Compare        Examine the character or qualities of two things by providing characteristics of both that point out their
               mutual similarities and differences
Conclude       Make a logical statement based on reasoning and/or evidence
Describe       Give a written account of a concept
Determine      Find a solution, to a specified degree of accuracy, to a problem by showing appropriate formulas,
               procedures, and/or calculations
Evaluate       Find a numerical value or equivalent for an equation, formula, or function
Explain        Make clear what is not immediately obvious or entirely known; give the cause of or reason for; make
               known in detail
Illustrate     Make clear by giving an example. The form of the example will be specified in the question: e.g., a word
               description, sketch, or diagram
Interpret      Provide a meaning of something; present information in a new form that adds meaning to the original data
Justify        Indicate why a conclusion has been stated by providing supporting reasons and/or evidence that form a
               mathematical argument
Model          Represent a concept or situation in a concrete or symbolic way
Prove          Establish the truth or validity of a statement by giving factual evidence or logical argument
Sketch         Provide a drawing that represents the key features or characteristics of an object or graph
Solve          Give a solution to a problem
Verify         Establish, by substitution for a particular case or by geometric comparison, the truth of a statement

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  25
       Website Links

              Alberta Education and Childcare website

              Programs of study

              General Information Bulletin
              contains specific directives, guidelines, and procedures of diploma examinations

              Diploma exams

              Writing diploma exams
              contains Guides for Students, exemplars, and other support documents

              Quest A+
              contains practice questions and questions from previous diploma examinations

              Digital Assessment Platform
              contains practice questions and questions from previous diploma examinations

*NEW Help page

              contains guides to help users of digital assessments access and administer secured tests and exams

              Field Test Information

              Teacher participation in provincial assessments
              contains information about marking, field testing, item development, and examination validation

              School Reports and Instructional Group Reports
              contain detailed statistical information on provincial, group, and individual student performance on the entire examination

26  Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
Contacts 2025Ł2026

Provincial Assessment

Provincial Assessment,
Alberta Education and Childcare
44 Capital Boulevard
10044 108 Street NW
Edmonton AB T5J 5E6

Alberta Education and Childcare website: alberta.ca/education-and-childcare

Provincial Assessment                                Digital Assessment
                                                     780-641-8987
Diploma exam security, diploma exam rules,           780-415-0824
scheduling, and policy issues                        Email: online.assessment@gov.ab.ca
780-427-1857
Email: exam.admin@gov.ab.ca                          myPass Access
                                                     Alberta Education and Childcare Help Desk
Results statements and rescores                      780-427-5318
780-427-1857                                         Email: AE.helpdesk@gov.ab.ca
Email: exam.admin@gov.ab.ca
                                                     Inquiries about transcripts, credentials, detailed
Special cases, accommodations, and exemptions        academic reports, and rewrite fees
780-415-9242                                         780-427-5732
780-427-4215                                         Email: studentrecords@gov.ab.ca
780-427-9795
Email: special.cases@gov.ab.ca                       Inquiries about student enrollment and marks and
                                                     mature student status
Field testing                                        780-422-9337
Email: field.test@gov.ab.ca                          Email: studentrecords@gov.ab.ca

Diploma exam format, content, confirming standards,  Packing and shipping of test materials
marking, and results reporting                       780-427-1857
Email: diploma.exams@gov.ab.ca                       Email: exam.admin@gov.ab.ca

French Assessment
Email: french.assessment@gov.ab.ca

For a toll-free call to any Alberta government office, dial 3100000 followed by the 10-digit phone number of the office
that you would like to reach.

When contacting Alberta Education and Childcare, please include your name, title, school name, school code, and, if referring
to a student, include the student's Alberta Student Number.

Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment  27
      Contacts 2025Ł2026

      Diploma Programs

*NEW  Terri Lynn Mundorf, Director              Joy Wicks,
      Diploma Programs                          Senior Manager of Math and Sciences
      780-422-0206                              Diploma Programs
      Email: Terri-Lynn.Mundorf@gov.ab.ca       780-643-6716
                                                Email: Joy.Wicks@gov.ab.ca
      French Assessment and
      Canadian Adult Education Credential       Shannon Mitchell
                                                Biology 30
      Corey Baker, Director                     780-415-6122
      French Assessment and                     Email: Shannon.Mitchell@gov.ab.ca
      Canadian Adult Education Credential
      780-422-3256                              Brenda Elder
      Email: Corey.Baker@gov.ab.ca              Chemistry 30
                                                780-427-1573
      Diploma Exam Leads                        Email: Brenda.Elder@gov.ab.ca

      Nathalie Langstaedtler,                   Delcy Rolheiser
      Senior Manager of Humanities              Mathematics 30Ł1
      Diploma Programs                          780-415-6181
      780-422-4631                              Email: Delcy.Rolheiser@gov.ab.ca
      Email: Nathalie.Langstaedtler@gov.ab.ca
                                                Jenny Kim
      Philip Taranger                           Mathematics 30Ł2
      English Language Arts 30Ł1                780-415-6127
      780-422-4478                              Email: Jenny.Kim@gov.ab.ca
      Email: Philip.Taranger@gov.ab.ca
                                                Marc Kozak
      Keri Helgren                              Physics 30
      English Language Arts 30Ł2                780-422-5465
      780-422-5213                              Email: Marc.Kozak@gov.ab.ca
      Email: Keri.Helgren@gov.ab.ca
                                                Stan Bissell
      Charla Jo Guillaume                       Science 30
      Social Studies 30Ł1                       780-422-5730
      780-422-5241                              Email: Stan.Bissell@gov.ab.ca
      Email: Charlajo.Guillaume@gov.ab.ca

      Lisa Lemoine
      Social Studies 30Ł2
      780-422-4327
      Email: Lisa.Lemoine@gov.ab.ca

      Gwendolyn Shone,
      Manager of French Assessment
      French Assessment and
      Canadian Adult Education Credential
      780-422-5464
      Email: Gwendolyn.Shone@gov.ab.ca

      Frķdķric Sķvigny
      Franńais 30Ł1, French Language Arts 30Ł1
      780-422-5140
      Email: Frederic.Sevigny@gov.ab.ca

      28                                   Mathematics 30Ł1 Information Bulletin 2025Ł2026 | Alberta Education and Childcare, Provincial Assessment
