           Area of Learning: SCIENCE -- Chemistry                                                                    Grade 11

                                                            BIG IDEAS

             Atoms and       Organic chemistry and its      The mole is a quantity  Matter and energy                  Solubility within a
           molecules are     applications have significant   used to make atoms      are conserved in                solution is determined
           building blocks  implications for human health,
                            society, and the environment.        and molecules           chemical                      by the nature of the
              of matter.                                          measurable.            reactions.                  solute and the solvent.

                            Learning Standards

Curricular Competencies                                                                                     Content

Students are expected to be able to do the following:                                                       Students are expected to know the following:

Questioning and predicting                                                                                       À quantum mechanical model and electron
     À Demonstrate a sustained intellectual curiosity about a scientific topic or problem of personal,               configuration
         local, or global interest
     À Make observations aimed at identifying their own questions, including increasingly abstract               À valence electrons and Lewis structures
         ones, about the natural world                                                                           À chemical bonding based on
     À Formulate multiple hypotheses and predict multiple outcomes
                                                                                                                     electronegativity
Planning and conducting                                                                                          À bonds/forces
     À Collaboratively and individually plan, select, and use appropriate investigation methods,                 À organic compounds
         including field work and lab experiments, to collect reliable data (qualitative and quantitative)       À applications of organic chemistry
     À Assess risks and address ethical, cultural, and/or environmental issues associated with their             À the mole
         proposed methods                                                                                        À dimensional analysis
     À Use appropriate SI units and appropriate equipment, including digital technologies,                       À reactions
         to systematically and accurately collect and record data                                                À stoichiometric calculations using
     À Apply the concepts of accuracy and precision to experimental procedures and data:
           -- significant figures                                                                                    significant figures
           -- uncertainty                                                                                        À local and other chemical processes
           -- scientific notation                                                                                À green chemistry
                                                                                                                 À solubility of molecular and ionic compounds
Processing and analyzing data and information                                                                    À stoichiometric calculations in aqueous
     À Experience and interpret the local environment
     À Apply First Peoples perspectives and knowledge, other ways of knowing, and local knowledge                    solutions
         as sources of information                                                                               À analysis techniques

June 2018                   www.curriculum.gov.bc.ca                                                                 ® Province of British Columbia À 1
       Area of Learning: SCIENCE -- Chemistry                                                                     Grade 11

                                                                                            ® Province of British Columbia À 2

                                                Learning Standards (continued)

Curricular Competencies                                                            Content

     À Seek and analyze patterns, trends, and connections in data, including
         describing relationships between variables, performing calculations,
         and identifying inconsistencies

     À Construct, analyze, and interpret graphs, models, and/or diagrams
     À Use knowledge of scientific concepts to draw conclusions that are

         consistent with evidence
     À Analyze cause-and-effect relationships

Evaluating
     À Evaluate their methods and experimental conditions, including identifying
         sources of error or uncertainty, confounding variables, and possible
         alternative explanations and conclusions
     À Describe specific ways to improve their investigation methods and
         the quality of their data
     À Evaluate the validity and limitations of a model or analogy in relation
         to the phenomenon modelled
     À Demonstrate an awareness of assumptions, question information given,
         and identify bias in their own work and in primary and secondary sources
     À Consider the changes in knowledge over time as tools and technologies
         have developed
     À Connect scientific explorations to careers in science
     À Exercise a healthy, informed skepticism and use scientific knowledge
         and findings to form their own investigations to evaluate claims in
         primary and secondary sources
     À Consider social, ethical, and environmental implications of the findings
         from their own and others' investigations
     À Critically analyze the validity of information in primary and secondary
         sources and evaluate the approaches used to solve problems
     À Assess risks in the context of personal safety and social responsibility

June 2018                www.curriculum.gov.bc.ca
       Area of Learning: SCIENCE -- Chemistry                                           Grade 11



                                                Learning Standards (continued)

Curricular Competencies                                                        Content

Applying and innovating
     À Contribute to care for self, others, community, and world through
         individual or collaborative approaches
     À Cooperatively design projects with local and/or global connections
         and applications
     À Contribute to finding solutions to problems at a local and/or global
         level through inquiry
     À Implement multiple strategies to solve problems in real-life, applied,
         and conceptual situations
     À Consider the role of scientists in innovation

Communicating
     À Formulate physical or mental theoretical models to describe a
         phenomenon
     À Communicate scientific ideas and information, and perhaps a suggested
         course of action, for a specific purpose and audience, constructing
         evidence-based arguments and using appropriate scientific language,
         conventions, and representations
     À Express and reflect on a variety of experiences, perspectives, and
         worldviews through place

June 2018                www.curriculum.gov.bc.ca                                       ® Province of British Columbia À 3
Big Ideas ¡ Elaborations                                          SCIENCE ¡ Chemistry
                                                                                    Grade 11

À Atoms and molecules:

   Sample questions to support inquiry with students:
     -- How does the quantum mechanical model extend our understanding of the atom?
     -- Why is fluorine the most electronegative element?

À Organic chemistry:

   Sample questions to support inquiry with students:
     -- How do organic compounds differ in structure and properties?
     -- How is carbon the basis for all living things?
     -- How do the structure and geometry of organic compounds contribute to their usefulness in medicine?

À mole:

   Sample questions to support inquiry with students:
     -- How could you demonstrate Avogadro's hypothesis?
     -- How does a mole compare to other units of measure?

À chemical reactions:

   Sample questions to support inquiry with students:
     -- How could you measure negative and/or positive impacts of chemical reactions on human health, society, and the environment in
           your local community?
     -- How can you observe the conservation of mass and energy in chemical reactions you encounter in your everyday life?
     -- How do lab techniques contribute to safety?

À Solubility:

   Sample questions to support inquiry with students:
     -- How does the bent shape of the water molecule cause polarity?
     -- Why do some materials dissolve in water or other liquids, but others do not?

Curricular Competencies ¡ Elaborations                            SCIENCE ¡ Chemistry
                                                                                    Grade 11

À Questioning and predicting:

   Sample opportunities to support student inquiry:
     -- How does organic chemistry apply to your life (e.g., plastics, medicine, nutrition, cosmetics, transportation)?
     -- What are some applications of chemical reactions within your local community (e.g., smelting, pulp and paper industry, food chemistry,
           petrochemical smog)?
     -- How does the solubility of carbon dioxide in the oceans contribute to climate change?

June 2018                               www.curriculum.gov.bc.ca  ® Province of British Columbia À 4
Curricular Competencies ¡ Elaborations                            SCIENCE ¡ Chemistry
                                                                                    Grade 11

À Planning and conducting:

   Sample opportunities to support student inquiry:
     -- How do spectral lines relate to the quantum mechanical model?
     -- How would you measure negative and positive impacts of chemical reactions on human health, society or the environment in your local community?
     -- How would you safely prepare and collect a gas (e.g., collection of hydrogen from the single displacement reaction of Zn and HCl displacing
           water from a tube)?
     -- How could you use solution chemistry analysis techniques to investigate local water or soil samples?
     -- Demonstrate Avogadro's hypothesis (e.g., Zn and HCl to produce a mole of H2 gas).
     -- Use a solubility chart to predict whether ions can be separated from a solution through precipitation and outline an experimental procedure that
           includes the compound added, precipitate formed, and method of separation.
     -- How would you estimate the uncertainty in a measurement, and how does using significant figures communicate uncertainty?

À Processing and analyzing data and information:

   Sample opportunities to support student inquiry:
     -- How is the solubility of ions related to their position on the periodic table?
     -- What variables affect solubility, concentration (molarity), and conductivity?
     -- Construct, analyze, and interpret graphs of electronegativity, atomic radii, and ionic radii.

À Evaluating:

   Sample opportunities to support student inquiry:
     -- Calculate uncertainty in derived values.
     -- How has technology played a role in the evolution of the model of the atom?

À Applying and innovating:

   Sample opportunities to support student inquiry:
     -- What solutions would you propose to address concerns about carbon dioxide in the environment?
     -- Using knowledge shared by First Peoples, explore the uses of traditional medicines. What medicines have been used? Which particular health
           conditions are/were they used for?
     -- Having been hired by the local government in your community to consult on the chemistry of fireworks, what suggestions would you provide
           for a spectacular yet safe show?

À Communicating:

   Sample opportunity to support student inquiry:
     -- During a meeting of various stakeholders, how would you best present your solutions to a local, chemistry-related problem?

À place: Place is any environment, locality, or context with which people interact to learn, create memory, reflect on history, connect with culture,
   and establish identity. The connection between people and place is foundational to First Peoples perspectives.

June 2018                               www.curriculum.gov.bc.ca  ® Province of British Columbia À 5
Content ¡ Elaborations                            SCIENCE ¡ Chemistry
                                                                    Grade 11

À electron configuration: molecular geometry, valence shell electron pair repulsion (VSEPR) theory

À chemical bonding: Lewis structures of compounds, polarity

À bonds/forces:

     -- covalent bond
     -- hydrogen bond
     -- intra- and intermolecular forces
     -- impact on properties
À organic compounds: names, structures, geometry

À applications of organic chemistry: First Peoples traditional practices (e.g., medicines), pharmaceuticals, petrochemicals, polymers, cosmetics,
   metabolism, agriculture, food, biotechnology

À dimensional analysis:

     -- factor-label method (unit-analysis method)
     -- calculation of mass and molar quantities (using significant figures)
À reactions: predicting products, reactants and energy changes (H)

À stoichiometric calculations:

     -- mass
     -- number of molecules
     -- gas volumes
     -- molar quantities
     -- excess and limiting reactants
À chemical processes: First Peoples traditional practices (e.g., tanning hides; preparation of food, soap, and natural bleach), smelting, pulp and paper
   production, food chemistry, photosynthesis and cellular respiration, development of petrochemical smog

À green chemistry: development of sustainable processes and technologies that reduce negative impacts on the environment (e.g., reducing toxicity,
   designing benign solvents, increasing energy efficiency)

À solubility: dissociation of ions, dissociation equation

À stoichiometric calculations in aqueous solutions:

     -- molarity
     -- dilution effect
     -- concentration of ions in solution when two solutions are mixed
À analysis techniques: e.g., dissolved oxygen, pH, nitrates, phosphorus

June 2018               www.curriculum.gov.bc.ca  ® Province of British Columbia À 6
