International Baccalaureate
Diploma Programme Subject Brief

Mathematics: Analysis and approaches

First assessment 2029

The Diploma Programme (DP) is a rigorous pre-university course of study designed for students in the
16 to 19 age range. It is a broad-based two-year course that aims to encourage students to be
knowledgeable and inquiring, but also caring and compassionate. There is a strong emphasis
on encouraging students to develop intercultural understanding, openmindedness, and
the attitudes necessary for them to respect and evaluate a range of points of view.
The course is presented as six academic areas enclosing a central core. Students
study two modern languages (or a modern language and a classical language),
a humanities or social science subject, an experimental science, mathematics
and one of the creative arts. Instead of an arts subject, students can choose two
subjects from another area. It is this comprehensive range of subjects that makes
the Diploma Programme a demanding course of study designed to prepare
students effectively for university entrance. In each of the academic areas students
have flexibility in making their choices, which means they can choose subjects
that particularly interest them and that they may wish to study further at university.
Normally, three subjects (and not more than four) are taken at higher level (HL), and
the others are taken at standard level (SL). The IB recommends 240 teaching hours for HL
subjects and 150 hours for SL. Subjects at HL are studied in greater depth and breadth than
at SL. In addition, three core elements--the extended essay, theory of knowledge and creativity,
activity, service--are compulsory and central to the philosophy of the programme.

    I. Course description and aims

      The mathematics: analysis and approaches course develops an understanding of the core principles of
      mathematical reasoning and the capacity to rigorously analyse, construct and communicate arguments
      through key mathematical concepts. The course encourages students to develop skills in problem-
      solving, mathematical inquiry, abstract thinking, and applying mathematical techniques in context. It
      also promotes the dispositions of a successful learner of mathematics. The course allows students to
      analyse mathematical ideas and solve problems both with and without technology. Students develop
      strong algebraic skills and procedural fluency and good conceptual understanding. The course has a
      specific focus on mathematical analysis using functions and calculus.
      The mathematics: analysis and approaches course is stimulating, accessible, challenging and
      comprehensive. The course:
      Ę develops a breadth and depth of mathematical understanding
      Ę fosters problem-solving skills in both familiar and unfamiliar situations
      Ę develops a mathematical inquiry process that empowers exploration, innovation and independent

           investigation
      Ę develops the key attributes of learners of mathematics.
      During the course, students engage in a mathematical exploration that allows them to identify a problem
      or question of interest and apply the mathematical inquiry process to that problem.

                                                                                                                                                        ® International Baccalaureate Organization, 2026
                                                                                                                                                        International Baccalaureate« | Baccalaurķat International« | Bachillerato Internacional«
The mathematical inquiry process involves:

Ę specifying problems by posing and framing mathematical questions

Ę choosing appropriate methods, tools or data to abstract problems into a mathematical form,
    and form plans to solve problems

Ę carrying out computations, with or without technology

Ę critically evaluating results for accuracy and relevance to interpret the outcomes of
    computations.

During the course, students develop the understanding and skills to solve problems. This includes the
ability to select appropriate mathematical tools and methods, apply these correctly and interpret the
results in terms of the original problem. Additionally, students develop the key attributes needed to
be successful problem-solvers and engage in mathematical inquiry.

The key attributes of a learner of mathematics include:

Ę reasoning inductively, deductively, abductively and analogically

Ę communicating mathematical thinking and ideas clearly and coherently, observing shared
    conventions

Ę linking different elements of mathematics through underlying concepts

Ę developing dispositions that include the identity, agency, purpose, creativity and resilience in
    learning mathematics.

II. Curriculum model overview

The mathematics: analysis and approaches course is organized into five main topics and the
mathematical exploration.

Each topic is studied with and without a calculator.

Syllabus component                                    Recommended teaching hours

                                                      SL  HL

Topic A: Number and algebra                           19  42
A1 Sequences
A2 Exponents and logarithms                           33  46
A3 Combinatorics
A4 Complex numbers (HL only)                          16  35
A5 Proof and algebraic manipulation

Topic B: Functions
B1 Representation of functions
B2 Polynomial functions
B3 Functions with asymptotes
B4 Trigonometric functions
B5 Transformations of graphs and functions

Topic C: Geometry
C1 Surface areas, volumes and measurement in circles
C2 Trigonometry and its applications
C3 Vectors (HL only)

                                                      ® International Baccalaureate Organization, 2026
                                                      International Baccalaureate« | Baccalaurķat International« | Bachillerato Internacional«
Topic D: Probability and statistics                  22          28
D1 Univariate data
D2 Probability                                       30          59
D3 Probability distributions
                                                     30          30
Topic E: Calculus
E1 Principles of differential calculus            150            240
E2 Techniques of differential calculus
E3 Techniques of integral calculus
E4 Problem-solving using calculus
E5 Differential equations (HL only)
E6 Maclaurin series (HL only)

Internal assessment
The mathematical exploration

Total

III. Assessment model

The DP mathematics courses assess students' abilities to solve mathematical problems and conduct
inquiry in mathematics. The assessment objectives (AOs) for DP mathematics are based on the four
stages of the mathematical inquiry process:
Ę problem specification
Ę abstraction
Ę computation
Ę interpretation.

For each stage, there are three levels of cognitive demand, ranging from simple, familiar contexts to
complex, unfamiliar contexts. These levels are used to determine the challenge in written assessment
and also inform the internal assessment criteria.

Assessment at a glance

Type of                                           Time (weighting of final grade)
assessment
            Format of assessment                  SL             HL

External                                          3 hours (80%)  5 hours (80%)

Paper 1     No technology allowed                 1 hour 30 minutes 2 hours (30%)
                                                         (40%)
            Section A: Compulsory short-response
            questions

            Section B: Compulsory extended-
            response questions

Paper 2     Technology required                   1 hour 30 minutes 2 hours (30%)
                                                         (40%)
            Section A: Compulsory short-response
            questions

            Section B: Compulsory extended-
            response questions

Paper 3     Technology required                   -              1 hour (20%)

            Two compulsory extended-response
            questions

                                                  ® International Baccalaureate Organization, 2026
                                                  International Baccalaureate« | Baccalaurķat International« | Bachillerato Internacional«
Internal           Written work that involves investigating  30 hours (20%) 30 hours (20%)
                   an area of mathematics using the
The mathematical   mathematical inquiry process.
exploration

Internal assessment

The internal assessment is the mathematical exploration that allows students to engage in mathematical
inquiry for a personal area of interest. The internal assessment criteria are the same for standard level
and higher level and reflect the mathematics inquiry process.

Criterion                 Marks                              Strands

A: Problem specification  4      Ę Problem in context

                                 Ę Desired outcomes

B: Abstraction            6      Ę Assumptions

                                 Ę Selected techniques and tools

                                 Ę Mathematical form

C: Computation            4      Ę Calculations

                                 Ę Mathematical communication

D: Interpretation         6      Ę Interpretation of results

                                 Ę Evaluation of desired outcomes

                                 Ę Refinement

About the IB: For over 50 years, the IB has built a reputation for high-quality, challenging programmes of education
that develop internationally-minded young people who are well prepared for the challenges of life in the 21st
century and are able to contribute to creating a better, more peaceful world.

For further information on the IB Diploma Programme, visit: https://ibo.org/en/dp.
Complete subject guides can be accessed through the Programme Resource Centre or purchased through the
IB store: https://ibo.org/new-store.
For more on how the DP prepares students for success at university, visit: https://ibo.org/en/university-admission.
